.TH "CryptNET Password Generator" 1
.SH NAME
<passgen> \- A password candidate generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B passgen
[options]

options: [-aAChHlLNrsuUv] [--help] [--version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B passgen
generates a list of password candidates for the user to choose from by mapping operating system sources of pseudorandomness into printable character arrays with a mod operation.

By default, /dev/random is used as the source for entropy.  If a large number of password candidates are being generated the process may be slowed while the device blocks.  This can avoided by using the -u flag, which will cause the non-blocking urandom device as the entropy source. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Generate password candidates alpha numeric characters only.
.TP
.B \-A
Generate password candidates using alphabetic characters only.
.TP
.B \-C
Suppress config file not found message.
.TP
.B \-h
Displays help text.
.TP
.B \-H
Homoglyph suppression level (0-2)
.RS
0 \- No homoglyph suppression.
.RE
.RS
1 \- Suppress font homoglyphs such as zero, capital 'o' (oscar), one, and lowercase 'l' (lima).
.RE
.RS
2 \- Suppress font homoglyphs and potential character homoglyphs such as backtick, apostrophe, double
quote, space, and underbar.
.RE
.TP
.B \-l
Specifies the length of the passwords to be generated.
.TP
.B \-L
For any letters, use lowercase only.
.TP
.B \-n
Specifies the number of passwords to be generated.
.TP
.B \-N
Generate password candidates using numeric characters only.
.TP
.B \-r
Use the blocking /dev/random device for password candidate generation.
.TP
.B \-s
Exclude the space character from generated password candidates.
.TP
.B \-u
Use the non-blocking /dev/urandom device to speed password candidate generation.
.TP
.B \-U
For any letters, use uppercase only.
.TP
.B \-v
Display program version information.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help text.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display program version information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(1) passgen.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs.
